>> Brian Holt: So before I showed
you how you would solve this without
context, right?
But what we're gonna do now is we're
going to solve this with context.
>> Brian Holt: So make a new file here.
>> Brian Holt: And
call it search context.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
Import React from react.
The problem that we're going to solve
here is that we have the location,
the animal and the breed, and we need to
read that from the search params page and
then use it to search on the results page.
So what we're gonna do here is
we're gonna say const SearchContext
= React.createContext.
This is a new method with React that's
going to create two components for
you, a provider component and
a consumer component, right?
The provider is going to make
everything available underneath it, and
the consumer is going to
read from the provider,
no matter how much distance
there is between it.
So it's kind of magical, right?
There's a magical
connection between the two,
that React is going to provide
basically a portal of data that you put
data in one side and
it will come out the other side.
So the provider is like
the entrance to the portal and
the consumer is the exit from the portal,
okay?
And then here, you're gonna
describe what your data looks like.
So I'm gonna be tracking location, and
then you'll give it your default value, so
I'm gonna say Seattle,
WA, animal, empty string,
breed, empty string, breeds empty array.
And then not only that, I'm gonna give it
the ability to modify this context, right?
So I need to give it the methods so that
people can actually on the consumer side,
components on the consumer
side can modify that data.
So we're gonna give it those handle
methods, handleAnimalChange and
these are just gonna be
empty functions for now.
>> Brian Holt: HandleBreedChange,
handleLocationChange.
>> Brian Holt: And get breeds.
>> Brian Holt: So what these are,
these are actually kind of dummy methods.
You'll use these if you're doing testing,
but
these are actually not the real
implementation of these methods.
But you're just describing to
React what these look like.
This is useful because later we'll be able
to reference inside of this component.
It's like this is everything that's
gonna be stored inside of this context.
>> Brian Holt: All right, and then we're
gonna do export two different things.
Export const provider =
SearchContext.provider.
And export const consumer
= searchContext.consumer.
So these are named exports.
So I have to go into search contacts and
import provider from there.
So they're specifically
being exported that way.
>> Speaker 2: Why do you choose to set
your functions in that way versus sending
them so do get breeds colon and
then empty prints rackets?
>> Brian Holt: I think less characters.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I just thought if
you have to worry about binding or
anything like that.
>> Brian Holt: No, they're just dummies.
They're letting future people know
that these are just methods, right?
So they're not doing anything.
The real reason for this is what's
inside of here, this is what gets
put on the context if no provider
is there which you shouldn't do.
You shouldn't ever use a consumer
without a provider being above it.
That's really what happens.
So that's only really useful for
testing purposes.
>> Brian Holt: And later, this will be
really useful for typescript because this
is how typescript knows this is
what's going to be on your context.
>> Brian Holt: So
now we've created context, right?
This is how you create context.